# Summary of Findings

We present a novel web application capable of identifying the degree of bias within abstracts/headlines based on so-called “votes” from labeling functions. The user submits abstracts and headlines, the app scrubs them of common words and processes them for labeling by our “voters.” This cleaned abstract/headline pair is then fed into the voting system, and a bias score is returned. The user can then see how the votes were determined and whom was responsible for each vote. 

A sentiment score is calculated from the sum of the Neural Network model and the labeling function bias equation. This is then compared with a VADER sentiment analyzer, both of these scores are in agreement within $\pm 0.1$ sentiment units. Negative sentiment scores indicate negative feelings within biased media articles and positive sentiment scores indicate positive feelings within biased media articles. The closer to 0 these scores are, the more neutral the sentiment and, thus, a lower degree of bias is observed. 

Regarding the justification for this sum, we designed our neural network (NN) model such that lower levels of bias are returned than our linear weighting equation. This was deliberate, as more articles are peer-reviewed to be eligible for publishing within this prestigious paper and thus most level of bias will be mitigated. Then, our linear weighting returns higher levels of bias. The reason for this is that, in using text expression (Regular Expressions or Regex) we are finding $\textit{instances}$ of these words and this increases the tendency for bias count within the equation. Thus, the results of these equations will necessarily be $\textit{more}$ skewed than our NN model results. Therefore, their summation is a sentiment score that captures the underlying mechanism of $\textit{bias}$, a certain $\textit{feeling}$ about some idea or concept... feeling "one-way-or-the-other" about this matter. From comparing with VADER sentiment analyzer, a well-documented and credible sentiment analyzer, we see our results align within $\pm 0.1$ sentiment units of VADER's sentiment results, thus our model is able to estimate sentiment and bias levels within articles.  

Find our app here: Link 
