# How Else Can We Think About Our Labeling Functions? 

In this case, each labeling function plays a specific role in our linear equation. In essence, they act as voters for our Bias Score or our Cohen Kappa Score. Their different weights render that their vote SCORES at varying levels of importance in context to the grand total. In other words, some votes COUNT more than others and this principle may be thought of in a similar way as the electoral college system in the US. In the electoral college system, some states have more counts than others and have a greater impact than those lesser states on the final tally for presidential candidates. With our labeling functions this is the same principle behind the weights and certain labeling functions having a greater impact on the final Cohen Kappa Bias score than others. For example, subjective sentiment has a greater role in biased work than passage length. Passage length has a greater role on bias than certain words that occurred most frequently in passages that were difficult to use to identify whether abstracts/headlines were found in the Opinion section of the Times versus any other section. These words were unable to be correctly predicted by the regression model (false positive/negatives), as these words were very broad in meaning/context, such as ‘American’,’state’, ‘senate’, ‘congress’ etc. However, this is a tenuous connection to whether or not the abstracts/headlines these words contained could justifiably counted towards being more bias than other articles, thus they had a lower weighting. 