# Sentiment Analysis and Validation with VADER analyzer

What is the intangible notion underlying bias? The answer is 'sentiment.' Feeling "one-way-or-the-other" about a topic or concept. We account for this in our project in order to the give the viewer a better idea of whether or not this bias is negative or positive in nature and the degree to which the bias is negative or positive. 

### Sentiment Score Based on Model and Validation

Our neural network (NN) model underpredicts bias, i.e. it is conservative and undershoots bias thresholds so as to not overlabel too many articles as overtly biased. This was, in fact, deliberate in design. However, our labeling function OVERESTIMATES bias. This was due to the fact that there were many triggers which were fed into the weighting equation and they elevate the Bias Score up regardless of context of keywords but also due to the polarity and sentiment scores are included in the equation. To account for these factors, we sum these two aforementioned scores and label their sum a "sentiment score." No averaging is necessary due to the fact that "implicit" weights have already been included in the derivation. I.e. the NN model has tends to the modest estimate (undershoots) and the linear weighting function tends to a larger estimate (overshoots), so finding their average would be an unrealistic measure of this quantity. We validate these scores with a Valence Aware Dictionary and sEntiment Reasoner (VADER) sentiment analyzer. All together, we label our bias and sentiment tools under the name Bias Estimator and Analyzer of Sentiment Tendency (BEAST) Engine. See the `statistical_analysis.ipynb` for detailed comparisons and analysis and `Summary_Findings.md` for a brief and non-technical discussion of these results. 