# Summary of Findings

All together, we label our bias estimating and sentiment analyzing tools collective by the acronym Bias Estimator and Analyzer of Sentiment Tendency (BEAST) Engine.

We present a novel application capable of identifying the degree of bias within abstracts/headlines based on so-called “votes” from labeling functions. The user submits abstracts and headlines, BEAST Engine scrubs them of common words and processes them or labeling by our “voters.” This cleaned abstract/headline pair is then fed into the BEAST's voting system, and a bias score is returned. For more detailed reference, the user may see how the votes were determined by viewing `Part2_Data_Labeling_Weighted_Function.ipynb` for the full weighted equation. 

BEAST calculates a sentiment score from the sum of the Neural Network model and the labeling function bias equation. This is then compared with a `VADER` sentiment analyzer, please see `statistical_analysis.ipynb` file for more details. Negative sentiment scores indicate negative feelings within biased media articles and positive sentiment scores indicate positive feelings within biased media articles. The scores range from $-1$, being the most negative, and $+1$, being the most positive. The closer to $0$ these scores are, the more neutral the sentiment and, thus, a lower degree of bias is observed. 

Regarding the justification for this sum, we designed our neural network (NN) model such that lower levels of bias are returned than our linear weighting equation. This was deliberate, as more articles are peer-reviewed to be eligible for publishing within this prestigious paper and thus most level of bias will be mitigated. Then, our linear weighting returns higher levels of bias. The reason for this is that, in using text expression (Regular Expressions or Regex) we are finding more $\textit{instances}$ of these words and this increases the tendency for bias count within the equation. Thus, the results of these equations will necessarily be $\textit{more}$ skewed than our NN model results. Therefore, their summation is a sentiment score that captures the underlying mechanism of $\textit{bias}$, a certain $\textit{feeling}$ about some idea or concept... feeling "one-way-or-the-other" about this matter. From comparing with `VADER` sentiment analyzer, a well-documented and credible sentiment analyzer, we see our BEAST Engine's results are comparable to `VADER`'s analyzer results, and this is discussed in greater detail in the `statistical_analysis.ipynb` file. We confirm that our tools is able to estimate sentiment and bias levels within articles.  

Find our app here: [Link](https://beastengine.streamlit.app) 
